README.md, before:

# Roll your own Bootcamp

## The Premise
Participating in an immersive coding bootcamp is a significant financial burden that a majority of working people do not have the privilege of being able to afford. There are numerous aspiring software engineers who do not possess the funds to pay a bootcamp's tuition and are unable to qualify for bank loans or Income Share Agreements. 

## Why Bootcamp is Valuable
I would argue that there is little, if anything, in the technical curriculum of any bootcamp that cannot be learned for free online. If all of that knowledge is readily accessible, what then is the point of spending thousands of dollars on a course to learn these things? As a bootcamp graduate, here is my perspective on what makes a coding bootcamp valuable.

1. In an immersive bootcamp you are forced to code every day. You spend anywhere from eight to twelve hours each day learning and building new things while solidifying your daily practice. 
2. You are assigned mandatory deliverables (homework) that require you to debug issues to completion. 
3. You are surrounded by like-minded individuals with whom you share a common goal. 
4. Finally, bootcamps often offer post cohort outcomes support to help alumni get hired in the industry.

If we break the bootcamp experience down to its composite parts, there is no reason why we cannot attempt to replicate it on our own. While we can't expect to create a facsimile, we can take steps to put our education and development into our own hands. 

## A Note About Starting Small
This article is specifically geared towards folks seeking the intensity of an immersive bootcamp. You absolutely __DO NOT__ have to burn yourself out just to get started with coding. Start small with one book, one youtube video, or one tutorial and just do a little bit each day. Learning to code takes repetition. As long as you are consistent, I promise you that your knowledge will grow. 

## Phase One - Pick Something that Interests You
There are so many different paths to take into the world of programming. Knowing where to start can be very overwhelming. There's web development, machine learning, artificial intelligence, data science, game development, and so on. Keep in mind that your interests will evolve as you progress and learn more. What you start with may not end up being what you want to do long term. The most important thing is to pick something that interests you enough to motivate you to start. 

Once your interest has been piqued, the next big question is: which language should I learn? There are so many different programming languages to choose from and the choice will largely depend on what you are interested in building. For web development Javascript is a must, for machine learning you can utilize the power of Python, and for game design you have C# and C++. Pick just one language to start and stick with it for _at least_ three to six months. 

_A biased recommendation: I started my programming journey with Python and now primarily write code in Javascript. When I was first starting, I found Python to be very easy to read and learn. Working with Python taught me the fundamentals of writing code. Then I enrolled in an immersive bootcamp where the primary language used was Javascript. Once I got the hang of the initially incomprehensible syntax of Javascript and discovered what a flexible language it is, it has been my primary language ever since._

## Phase Two - Gather Materials

## Phase Three - Set a Schedule

## Phase Four - Build Something

## Phase Five - Establish a Support Network

Commit message:

Revise recommendation, and rough draft gather materials section

README.md, after:

# Roll your own Bootcamp

## The Premise
Participating in an immersive coding bootcamp is a significant financial burden that a majority of working people do not have the privilege of being able to afford. There are numerous aspiring software engineers who do not possess the funds to pay a bootcamp's tuition and are unable to qualify for bank loans or Income Share Agreements. 

## Why Bootcamp is Valuable
I would argue that there is little, if anything, in the technical curriculum of any bootcamp that cannot be learned for free online. If all of that knowledge is readily accessible, what then is the point of spending thousands of dollars on a course to learn these things? As a bootcamp graduate, here is my perspective on what makes a coding bootcamp valuable.

1. In an immersive bootcamp you are forced to code every day. You spend anywhere from eight to twelve hours each day learning and building new things while solidifying your daily practice. 
2. You are assigned mandatory deliverables (homework) that require you to debug issues to completion. 
3. You are surrounded by like-minded individuals with whom you share a common goal. 
4. Finally, bootcamps often offer post cohort outcomes support to help alumni get hired in the industry.

If we break the bootcamp experience down to its composite parts, there is no reason why we cannot attempt to replicate it on our own. While we can't expect to create a facsimile, we can take steps to put our education and development into our own hands. 

## A Note About Starting Small
This article is specifically geared towards folks seeking the intensity of an immersive bootcamp. You absolutely __DO NOT__ have to burn yourself out just to get started with coding. Start small with one book, one youtube video, or one tutorial and just do a little bit each day. Learning to code takes repetition. As long as you are consistent, I promise you that your knowledge will grow. 

## Phase One - Pick Something that Interests You
There are so many different paths to take into the world of programming. Knowing where to start can be very overwhelming. There's web development, machine learning, artificial intelligence, data science, game development, and so on. Keep in mind that your interests will evolve as you progress and learn more. What you start with may not end up being what you want to do long term. The most important thing is to pick something that interests you enough to motivate you to start. 

Once your interest has been piqued, the next big question is: which language should I learn? There are so many different programming languages to choose from and the choice will largely depend on what you are interested in building. For web development Javascript is a must, for machine learning you can utilize the power of Python, and for game design you have C# and C++. Pick just one language to start and stick with it for _at least_ three to six months. 

_A biased recommendation: I spent the first day of my programming journey attempting to learn Java. As a total beginner, I quickly found myself lost and overwhelmed. The next day, I told a developer friend of mine what I was up to and he suggested that I give Python a try instead. After glancing at Python and discovering how simple its syntax was compared to Java, I obtained a copy of Zed Shaw's excellent book Learn Python the Hard Way and dove in head-first. These days, I do most of my coding in Javacript, but I never would have gotten started if it wasn't for Python. If you want a beginner-friendly language with which to learn the basics, it's hard to beat Python._

## Phase Two - Gather Materials
This step is arguably be the easiest one once you learn where to look. Once you have picked your subject of interest and the language you'd like to learn, it's time to gather learning materials. As long as you have access to an internet connection, you can obtain all of the academic materials you need to teach yourself programming (and a majority of the time you can get them for free.)

There are many authors and publishers who make offer their books free of charge online. A few such books I've utilized during my travels are Al Sweigart's _Automate the Boring Stuff with Python_, Marijn Haverbeke's _Eloquent Javascript_, and Aditya Y. Bhargava's _Grokking Algorithms_.

## Phase Three - Set a Schedule

## Phase Four - Build Something

## Phase Five - Establish a Support Network
